---
layout: post
title:  "On Shucking"
date:   2019-06-17 14:54:00 -0400
categories: essays
---
Duxbury, Massachusetts is oyster country. There are about 30 oyster companies operating out of Duxbury Bay, some producing as many as five million oysters per year. Many of these companies are only a few years old, and they’re all trying to cash in on the skyrocketing international demand for oysters. Oysters have grown in popularity in the last two decades, assisted by their status as a staple in low-carb diets. Even some vegans make an exception for oysters because oysters do not have a central nervous system, so they supposedly don’t feel pain.

Unfortunately, oysters are disgusting. It’s hard to conceive of a grosser food, except for something that contains human body fluids. And that is the most distinct aesthetic characteristic of the oyster: it resembles a little bowl of mucus. I’ve warmed up to all the “adult” foods I’ve encountered. When I was a toddler, I would gag at the scent of peanut butter. Now, I eat it by the spoonful. When I drank wine in church as a preteen, I would leave the altar, sprint to the bathroom, and scrub my tongue to get rid of the taste. It looked as if I was attempting a sort of makeshift exorcism like I thought that scraping my taste buds would expel Christ from my soul. Still, by the time I reached college, I began to understand the appeal of a glass of red wine. But after a thousand oysters, I’m still baffled by their popularity.

Duxbury has little patience for those who don’t “get” oysters. The town shoos oyster skeptics down to Cape Cod where the fried clams and buttered lobster are better suited for the unrefined tourist palette. I feel like an outsider when I dismiss oysters, but I believe I am a part of a silent majority. I sense it most when I read about the oyster industry. The Boston Globe once described Duxbury’s oysters as both “vegetal” and “briny” in the same article. I suspect the Globe is trying to expose the indecency of oysters without explicitly bashing a local industry. The article is incriminating: who would accept the offer of a briny snack or vegetal appetizer? But no matter how often the Globe implies that oysters are unappealing, the industry survives.

Duxbury’s most popular oyster restaurant is The Oysterman, a remodeled shack that seats about 50 people. The Oysterman draws a solid crowd every night of the summer, but on Mondays it is Armageddon. Mondays are “$1 Oyster Night” which means locals can buy oysters for just $1, as opposed to the usual $2-$3 that oysters usually sell for on local menus. It seems like marginal savings, but it’s enough to turn the most civil patrons into rabid piranhas. Every Monday, townspeople flood The Oysterman, and they don’t leave until they’ve eaten every last oyster in the house.

$1 Oyster Night is a nightmare for the restaurant’s lowest ranking employee: the dishwasher. When The Oysterman sells over 2,000 oysters in one night, that means someone has to shuck over 2,000 oysters in one night. Oyster shucking is gruntwork, so it is the duty of the dishwasher. To shuck an oyster, one has to slide a stubby knife into a gap in the oyster’s shell. Then, she lifts off the shell, bit by bit, at each point of attachment. Oysters do not like to be opened. It’s like prying open a sinewy rock. Once the knife is lodged into the oyster, the shucker has to grip the shell in order to fiddle the oyster open. Often, the shells are jagged, so any abrupt movements with the pointy shell in hand means the shucker will slice their palm.

When I washed dishes at The Oysterman, it was a rite of passage to be pulled out of the shucking rotation because your hands were too bloody. As we shucked, the general manager would walk by, examine our hands, and if there were too many cuts, he would announce, “you’re off the clock” and send us home. As each employee was picked off, higher-ranking survivors had to take their place. First, it was the dishwashers, then the busboys, then the cooks, and then the manager himself. It doesn’t matter how much experience you had, nobody made it to the end of $1 Oyster Night without cutting their hands. The bartenders and waitresses were never asked to shuck because their hands needed to be pristine. Those were the hands that interacted with customers. In retrospect, wearing gloves would have been an obvious way to skirt the glaring food safety violations we incurred every week, but that level of safety would have insulted the spirit of the craft. Real shucking is done with bare hands.

It takes creativity to make a delicacy of something that doesn’t even taste like food. Many only love oysters for their pearls, but Duxbury loves to eat them. From afar, it’s endearing. It’s hard not to be proud that such a small community has built such a vigorous oyster empire. But as long as restaurants serve oysters, I will still be scratching my head and wondering if it’s all a cruel joke.
