---
layout: post
title:  "5 Lessons About Writing From Journalist and Author Jayson Greene"
date:   2019-07-16 14:54:00 -0400
categories: ideas
---

Today [Jayson Greene](https://twitter.com/Jayson_Greene) came to my English class. We asked him some questions about writing, and he had some interesting responses.

1. **Don't Just Write What You Know** - You don't have to only write about your own experiences. There's a respectful way to write about any topic. Also, the idea of "write what you know" sort of assumes that your knowledge is finite. It's not. If you go out and learn about a topic for the specific purpose of writing about it, that's not cheating. You know _know_ whatever you observed. Also, make sure to leave room for what you don't know. Be aware of your scope and don't pretend to be an expert.

2. **Just Publish!** - Revision is often a way to delay scrutiny. You can only get better through feedback from the world. As Jayson put it, writing is not "painting the Sistine Chapel." Instead, Jayson said we should think about writing "like you're making brunch." These eggs need to get cooked. They need to be fully cooked, but they don't need to be perfect. People are waiting.

3. **Writing Makes You Empathetic, Especially Toward Yourself** - I really enjoyed Jayson's depiction of the process of inspiration. He described the inspired flow state of creativity as "gooey and beautiful." Then, the next morning you read your writing after it has "cooled" to discover it wasn't the masterpiece you thought it was. Jayson says that revisiting our writing forces us to be empathetic. "Why did I think this was so good when I wrote it?" Then, you begin to understand your thought process better.  

4. **Thought Makes Writing, Not Experience** - You don't need to have tons of wild, exotic experience to write interesting pieces. If your piece is interesting, that's a reflection of your depth of thought.

5. **Don't Call Your Writing "Content"** - _Content_ implies that your work is a commodity. Your writing is not chicken feed or foam insulation. It's a reflection of yourself and your perspective. Content means a BuzzFeed quiz or an iPhone unboxing. Thoughtful writing is not content.
